These
whole discussions were very impressive that much
more needed to be done about radioactivity in the
ocean, that the waste disposal problem ended
up by being swept under the rug a good deal. The
really most apparent thing was that there was a
tremendous amount of activity huge financing,
many corporations, national policy to produce
radioactivity, and there were only very slight,
small, low priority, feeble efforts and
considerations of what one should do to try and
take
care of all of it after it had been produced, in case
the nuclear program was successful in phase one.
Let's shut it off.
This earlier consideration of the radioactive
problem is one that, like many others, I copped out
on and had very little to do with it for quite a long
time.
Some of the problems involved were so technically
difficult that many oceanographers felt the
Atomic Energy Commission should not undertake
some of the more complicated ways of looking at
their problems, technical ways. This, I think,
didn't get done, and it is one of the things that I
believe our oceanographic community was not fair
to PLACES like the Atomic Energy Commission,
because really they wanted to move. In some cases,
they wanted to move ahead with, let's say, some of
the optimist oceanographers, and some of the
pessimist oceanographers sort of dampened their
spirits.
I think that's enough on what activity I had with
that NASCO committee. It had a great influence on
me because it did have to do with the future of the
game and it showed that
looking ahead five or ten years, if you did your
homework, was apt to be successful. They asked for
a third of a billion dollars in ten years, and they
probably got twice that much. It wasn't all spent
the way they had recommended, which was probably a
good thing, but it did show there was great action.
To my way of thinking, there has been no effort by
oceanographers since that time that comes within
a factor of three of being as aggressive, as
forward-looking, as constructive, and so forth.
I believe this is one of the reasons why we have been
tending to do a little bit more floundering. And it
is basically that the oceanographers have not
been doing their homework as well as Washington,
and we have no complaint to make. I would like to
have one flashback here about the Ocean Resources
Institute. in Woods Hole, which was largely the
brainchild of a naval architect, ocean engineer
by the name of Francis Minot and Columbus Islin.
This started off as the Marine Fisheries and
Engineering Organization, and that name was so
cumbersome that we changed. I became one of the
trustees of a fledgling organization that its
office and laboratory was one small second floor
office, seldom could afford a secretary. And it
lived off a few grants from the Crane Foundation
and from Columbus Island's uncle, and altogether
too much from Columbus Island's personal
pocketbook. But it was a very real attempt,
starting about 1951, to get the oceanographic and
engineering aspects of the oceanography
proceeding. Columbus felt very strongly, and I
certainly agreed with him, that a community such
as Woods Hole should encompass more than just
scientific oceanography.
One of his criteria for having a separate... He had
several criteria for having a separate
organization, which I think were fairly sound.
One is he felt the... If a director of an
institution didn't have his hand in too many pies,
well, then he could appear a little more realistic
and have a few more hours a day to spend on the one
that was the highest priority. He also felt, which
was either right or wrong, that academic people in
academia that were free in a research place where
they're completely free to choose their subject
should be willing to operate at lower salaries
than people who were working on applied problems
and were somewhat more under the thumb of somebody
else. And he felt the salary scale in a small, he had
tried to have a dual salary scale in one
institution where you were headed for trouble.
And if you were with separate organizations, you
could have somewhat separate salary scales. And
any worker was free to work in either place. He
could get a job. This was typical of the kind of
administrative policies that Islin used. Not
everyone would agree that scientists should be
paid less than engineers, but it may be if
engineers had been paid more than scientists. In
oceanography, we would have had ocean
engineering operating long before this.
Here again in the Ocean Resources Institute,
which
went under partly by bankruptcy and partly that
the director, about 10 years later, died in an
automobile accident, it never seemed to catch on.
The people couldn't understand it was such a good
idea why the Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution didn't do it In a way, Revelle laid
here because he set up a comparable kind of
organization in Scripps and made it part of, made
it a segment of Scripps.
It is now their marine resources institute.
Here at Woods Hole, the institution sort of died
out and started up again in a somewhat different
vein when Woods Hole started having departments,
and one of them was a department of ocean
engineering. This, however, was significantly
different because it was I think conceived too
much on the basis of being a facility to produce
instruments for scientists and not enough of such
things of worrying about safety at sea, the
economics and engineering of getting industry to
pick up oceanographic ideas a little quicker and
trying to put them to use.
So as
these things got talked about more in the
oceanographic community, they began to get
incorporated a little bit more. The Marine
Technology Society, for example, is an
illustration of this. But a good many years later,
when Islin was very sick and in the hospital a short
time before he died. He was in the Boston Hospital
at one night when the AAAS was holding a meeting,
and this meeting had been very much,
or this, one or two sessions had been devoted to
more of the industrial application of science.
And I remember going over and talking to Columbus
and saying, well, about 15 years later, where the
AAAS finally got around to start talking about the
same kinds of things he'd been talking about. And I
can remember that he, although he was pretty low on
energy, he kind of grinned and said, well, aren't
we lucky it's only been 15 years?
Shut it off.
To come back to the question of designing ships for
the job,
we did a little bit of work
back in the late 50s in getting some informal
proposals off the National Science Foundation
for something like the Atlantis II. and new ships
for Scripps. I know there are oftentimes problems
in procurement which don't show on the surface.
One of these was exemplified by Bill Benson, who
was then in geology at National Science
Foundation. And he and I had spent a lot of time on
this kind of thing, talking also with other
oceanographers of essentially people
contemporary with Bill and myself.
So he took the bull by the horns and got Ravel and
Islin and had lunch with him. I believe Art Maxwell
was at that one.
Benson sort of made the suggestion that if the
National Science Foundation could get some money
for some ships, what kind of ships would they like
and this sort of thing. Here were these two
directors of oceanographic institutions, and
both of them said, we don't need any new ships.
We've got all the ships we need and certainly all we
can afford, and they're good enough for us, and
that sort of that. We all had to go back to the
drawing boards on that one for a while, but we did
our homework on that one, a little bit of homework.
After Dr. Fye took over here at Woods Hole,
he organized a ship committee to look into the
design of a new ship This took a good deal of time,
and Francis Minot was the first chairman, and Dick
Edwards the second chairman of it after Frank
died. But we worked very hard on the design of
Atlantis II. The
Bethlehem Steel Corporation got the design
contract. And one little instance here, which I
think is important, After about the fourth round
of design, when it already looked like we'd been
spending too much time on design, there was much
talk about finishing that design and saying put it
in production.
I had people go around the table and make their
comments, and I felt a little embarrassed doing
this, but I brought up the point that it took six
weeks to do, a month to six weeks to do a redesign,
and it cost about $25,000. We'd already done this
three times, and each time there was a vast
improvement. I thought if we went around, if we
could face it one more time, we'd have a lot better
ship. And I was simply delighted that people went
along with this.
The ship got to be big enough and solid enough to
where it became really a kind of a true competitor,
much more a true competitor with the chain. And
this ship probably had one of the best layouts of
any ship. It's a very pleasant ship to work on from
the standpoint of the way it is laid out.
This was an improvement on the designs of the Agors
in which a large number of working oceanographers
decided that if they made off-center deckhouses
and lopsided afterdecks, that then they could
handle their equipment much better and have a much
better physical layout.
Perhaps the biggest experiment in Atlantis II was
to have a library in it. The
decision was to have a space which was at least as
large as the captain's cabin and fixed up at least
as well as the captain's cabin and establish a good
library and a pleasant place to be with a library
that was divided between general fiction and
travel and technology. This has turned out to be a
very successful thing. We've incorporated it in
our other ships. It gives many more references
available on the spot provides much more
education. The level of reading material in the
ship has improved many fold over what it had been in
the past. And one of the nicest things about it that
has pleased me is when you're on an expedition in
which there are people from other countries
there, It turns out that many of these people come
from countries where the library isn't as good as
we have on the Atlantis. And it's indeed a pleasure
to see people be able to tour over things, look up
things on time. It
has greatly improved almost the semi-formal
teaching of classes and courses, or at least of
issues aboard the ship. That may not seem like a
very large step in seagoing, because some of the
larger European ships have had this kind of thing
for a long time. American ships had not.
To continue a bit on ship building, ship
designing, I continued to work with some of the
other laboratories that were involved with ship
design where they were interested in having
cooperation.
Still later when Woods Hole decided they needed a
Crawford replacement, Dr.
Fye asked me if I would be chairman of that ship
committee and I was. The other principal worker
was John Leiby who was largely responsible for so
many fine things about the ship. But I think on that
ship committee, what we did is we had many very
realistic discussions as to what did people want
what did the scientists want, and we tried to
parcel out the kinds of things that different
ships were best for, and this ship ended up to be
primarily a ship for the physical oceanographic
department, or I should say rather it was a ship
that was specifically designed to do the kind of
work they wanted to do as well as possible and work
for Some of the other departments took more of a
back seat. As a result, even though the ship was
only 170 feet long, it was the fastest ship we have,
and it's turned out to be a very good ship and a very
happy ship. People like to work on it. One
of the reasons, an example of one of the reasons why
people should do their homework And it pays to be
positive about it. Although
Dr. Fye worked very hard, he was unable to get
private funds for the ship, but we did get NSF to
build it. They made us come down on the specs some,
and we had to take it as a bare boat, hardly with
enough equipment to come away from the
manufacturer. But sort of just as we were going to
order it, they said, incidentally, would you like
to order two more? So as a result, there are now
three of those ships or slight variations of them
in the game. And I think the lesson here is to
assume, if you're working in the right direction,
to assume that there's a high probability you may
have have or find friends that will carry the game
along even though it looks hopeless to you at the
time.
In the last few years I've been interested in,
gotten interested in, was always in quite a
variety of things, but I've gotten somewhat more
extracurricular and somewhat longer range in the
timescales of what I have been working on. This may
be an indication of old age. I understand it's a
general trend. But also, our institution
started getting a lot of titles and the one of
senior scientists they indicate it's a title in
which people should be free to worry about longer
term things and it's becoming very clear in our
highly organized society And the fact that young
people have to publish or perish, and if they don't
publish, they get booted out almost before you can
find who they're capable of really good work or
not. But there are certain kinds of problems
that... are going to require more time. And it
seemed to me that if the institution set up the
category of senior scientists, so this was one of
the options open for them, that I would push that
option a little harder than perhaps I might.
Recently, I've gotten very much interested in the
particular aspect of how one does better
sub-bottom profiling. Now,
what I have to say next may indicate that it may turn
out to be wrong and a poor step. But it is a general
direction that we need higher resolution. I think
higher resolution is the name of the game in a great
many things. It's true of the BT. It's true of the
slowly corrected instruments. It's true of the
history of our science. I think it is also true that
astronomers as a whole use their physics more to
help them understand the limits of measurement
and then they try and achieve those. In
oceanography we tend to get somewhat more sloppy
and concern ourselves with how poor measurements
can we get by with.
High resolution sonar at high frequencies,
whether used to locate mines or fish or what the
doctor uses to determine what the sex of an unborn
child is, has progressed much further than high
resolution equipment in low frequency games that
we use on ships.
One example of this was a very high precision piece
of echo sounding gear the Navy made. I had hoped to
get some of this into oceanography, but one didn't
seem to be able to get very much enthusiasm really
for specialized ships. very specialized
apparatus. And this indicates again why
frequently I've liked to work with the Navy,
because the Navy would be interested in the
equipment that was, in oceanographic equipment,
that was better than what oceanographers seemed
to be interested in. Part of it is a defeatist
attitude. They figured if there wasn't enough
money for it, why dream about it? But on the other
hand, if you don't dream about it, you never get it.
Radio
astronomers and
geophysicists tend to use about the same
wavelengths. And radio astronomers and people
who deal in commercial people, radar people, they
have some very big dishes which are equivalent to
the optical analogs of lenses or reflectors. And
they make their money by having extremely high
directionality, of having extremely high energy
gathering power. And this is a game we have not
played at any very low frequency in oceanography.
The general concept of having a ship at least as big
as an ordinary research ship, which is nearly
nearly all acoustic lens or acoustic reflector I
think has a very real place. And I've been spending
a modest amount of my time in the last two or three
years in trying to see if this makes sense and the
And while I haven't been able to get very much
financing for it, I feel this is a direction which
is probably inevitable.
If one reads Galileo, he was very excited indeed
when he got a lens and could look in the sky with an
added resolution that it gave.
I've been sort of concerning myself with whether
if one had a reflector as big as 100 meters in
diameter, which is small compared to the big
tanker, what its implications to geophysics and
echo sounding might be.
The military with either sonar or radar would find
it very difficult indeed to isolate and
understand a particular and classify a
particular target if they proceeded with only
gear which is obviously incapable of high
resolution as what we routinely use in
oceanography.
Another kind of thing I've gotten interested in
recently is acoustics in the blind.
The very early days of acoustics in submarining
and listening, you just couldn't help but have the
feeling that as a professional listener, I must be
a rank amateur compared to the blind person. And in
the field of oceanography, where nearly
everything we learn is by remote
instrumentation, the field of geophysics, where
it's remote instrumentation, and measurements
are either made in the acoustic field or in
frequencies that can easily be translated to it,
or they're made with sensors that can be converted
to that. Not that for a moment that I think that
blind people can hear significantly better than
sighted people. And I've been warned to emphasize
this. But I have a very high respect for the true
professional in almost any game. And in
acoustics, it must be the blind person that is the
real professional. I don't know the blind very
well, but I understand instrumentation pretty
well, and I understand the terrible, terrible
limitations of instrumentation.
Even the most optimistic of the realistic
computer people think it would be folly to think
that in this century we could even come close to a
typewriter that could could type messages and
multilingual and begin to catch the nuances and
things like this, let alone hearing, typing what
one person at a cocktail party says.
In the general ability to understand what they
hear, to put things in a perceptual and geometric
location, it may well be that the human mind, and I
stress the human mind rather than the human ear,
may have some advantages which we have not
capitalized on today, whether this is in
understanding seismology, perhaps
understanding earthquakes or so forth from the
standpoint of science, getting better
acquainted with the acoustics of fish. These are
fields which I think might be right.
Probably far more important from the standpoint
of general society is that if you read the
rehabilitation literature for the blind, it is
nearly all on how does one find a job simple enough
for a subhuman where there may be classes of jobs in
which their acoustical ability, of their
resolution ability, or their ability of the
portion of their mind which analyzes acoustic
signals, may open up for them jobs in which they
will be the professionals, quality control and
production lines. working with police
departments to identify voices, and
in structural mechanics.